Welcome back to Mrs Rundown, in today’s
video I am going to be recapping the events
of 22 Jump Street, a 2014 Comedy/Action film.
Spoilers ahead!
You have been warned.
Now like the video and subscribe to the channel
if you enjoy this video.
The film starts with a "Previously on 21 Jump
Street" opening, featuring a brief recap of
the last film in which Officers Schmidt and
Jenko were partnered up and became friends
after they took down the drug dealers Mr.
Walters and Eric Molson, up to Captain Dickson
assigning them their newest assignment, going
to college.
Schmidt moans the fact that he and Jenko are
taking online courses instead of actually
being there.
They then head to Metro City Port to take
on an assignment.
There, they find the wanted drug lord, (The
Ghost), a man who is said to have made connections
with the Mexican cartel.
Schmidt dresses up as a gang member and gets
in character to infiltrate the gang, but Jenko
knows he sucks at improvising.
The two meet Ghost and his men in a warehouse,
where Schmidt plays up his role while Jenko
is unconvincing.
Ghost lets them into his truck to check out
his supply.
The two open a crate and an octopus jumps
on Schmidt's face, inking in his mouth.
In their panic, the two drop their accents
and are found out.
Ghost and his men shoot at Schmidt and Jenko
and make their escape in the truck.
Jenko hops on top of the truck to catch the
goons, while a nervous Schmidt tries to climb
over.
His foot gets caught in a net and he falls,
dangling over the edge of the truck.
Jenko walks to the front and breaks the windshield,
nearly arresting Ghost, until Schmidt gets
on top of the truck and hits a beam, getting
himself and Jenko caught with the net onto
the beam, letting Ghost and his men get away.
The guys meet with Chief Hardy over their
latest screw-up.
Hardy suggests that this wouldn't have happened
if they just did the undercover Jump Street
program again like last time.
He adds that even though nobody had faith
in their reboot, the guys got lucky, and now
they have double the budget to move ahead
with a new assignment.
The guys are sent to the Vietnamese church
across the street since the Koreans bought
back the church on 21 Jump Street, and so
they must now report to 22 Jump Street.
There, the guys are impressed by the high
quality look to the headquarters and see that
Jenko's nerd friends from high school are
now interns.
They report to Dickson, who tells them they're
going to MC State to investigate the appearance
of a new drug called WhyPhy (stands for "Word
Hard?
Yes.
Play Hard?
Yes.").
The guys receive a file on a victim of the
drug, Cynthia Watson.
She was high on WhyPhy and fell out her window
to her death.
They are also given a picture of Cynthia exchanging
the drug with an unknown suspect.
Schmidt and Jenko make it to MC State, once
again under their aliases of Brad and Doug
McQuaid, and get adjusted to their dorm and
returning to college life.
They meet the Yang Twins, Keith and Kenny
(The Lucas Brothers), who have a very interesting
twin connection.
The guys then head to some classes to try
and find any possible dealers.
Schmidt takes a psychology class and is immediately
thought to be a narc.
Jenko takes a history class taught by a professor
that presses Jenko to question his lectures,
since that's what he thinks college is all
about in order for someone to find themselves.
The professor also admits to sleeping with
two students.
The guys later go to an open mic night for
slam poetry where Schmidt meets a pretty girl
from his class named Maya.
He goes up on stage to do a weird poem in
honor of Cynthia, which gets a few laughs.
With no leads, Schmidt and Jenko realize they
need to consult an expert.
They go to prison to visit Mr. Walters, who
brags about having a vagina and being Eric's
bitch (the latter denies it and begs the guys
to get him out).
Walters takes a look at the picture of Cynthia
and the suspect, and he mocks the guys for
not looking at the picture closely to see
that the suspect has a tattoo on his arm of
a bazooka with "BOOM" written in a cloud.
The guys visit a tattoo parlor and ask the
tattoo artist if he remembers giving that
tattoo to anybody, and he thinks he gave it
to a football player with a red mohawk.
Jenko recognizes the description to match
a guy from his history class named Rooster.
The guys try out for the football team.
Jenko immediately strikes up a friendship
with another player named Zook.
Both Schmidt and Jenko try to keep an eye
on Rooster and get a look at his arm to find
the tattoo.
Jenko shows impressive skills on the field,
catching the attention of the coach.
Zook invites Jenko to a party at his frat
house later that night, with Schmidt tagging
along despite Jenko telling him he should
stay behind.
Jenko gets in with the frat guys, while Schmidt
gets too close to Rooster in trying to find
the tattoo and is sent away.
While Jenko parties with Zook and the other
frat boys, Schmidt runs into Maya and hangs
out with her at the art building.
He ends up sleeping with her in her dorm room.
Meanwhile, Jenko joins Zook and Rooster on
the football field where Jenko finally gets
a look at Rooster's arm.
He DOES have a tattoo, but it's of Rooster's
high school football team, called the Red
Herrings.
Turns out that Zook has a tattoo on his arm
as well a bazooka with "BOOM" written next
to it.
Schmidt wakes up and meets Maya's rude roommate
Mercedes.
She mocks Schmidt for looking old and for
the way his sex with Maya sounded.
She leaves and Maya tells Schmidt that Mercedes
was Cynthia's roommate, and that Maya let
her stay with her because she felt bad, even
though she hates Mercedes.
Schmidt then joins up with Jenko at the headquarters
to report to Dickson, still with no leads,
though Schmidt brags about having sex to Dickson,
who gives him daps to show approval.
The guys meet up in their dorm, where they're
eating blondies.
The Yang Twins inform them that those are
laced with WhyPhy.
Later that night, the guys sneak out at night
and infiltrate Zook's frat house as they are
going over who they would like to recruit
for their frat.
As they listen in on the frat, they hear a
great approval for Jenko to join, but no love
for Schmidt.
Zook thinks they should let him in since he's
always with Jenko, but Rooster thinks he'll
jeopardize whatever they have going on.
Schmidt knocks over a mannequin and makes
a loud noise, forcing him and Jenko to run
before Zook finds them.
The guys make it to their dorm but are caught
by Zook and his guys, and then are stuffed
in a trunk.
There, they begin to feel the effects of the
WhyPhy and start to trip out heavily.
Schmidt experiences a dark and unpleasant
trip while Jenko has a colorful and happy
high.
When they're pulled out of the trunk, they
find that Zook and the other frat boys are
merely hazing them for initiation.
They subject Schmidt and Jenko to drinking
games.
Jenko excels and impresses the boys while
Schmidt is uncomfortable and clumsy.
When the last task involves pigs, Schmidt
walks out.
Jenko follows and tries to convince him to
stick around and have fun, but Schmidt wants
no part of it.
Jenko eventually starts spending more time
with Zook while Schmidt is left alone.
Schmidt receives an unwelcome surprise from
his parents as they visit him for Parents
Weekend, not realizing he's undercover again.
They meet Maya, and Schmidt's mom embarrasses
him again.
It gets worse when Schmidt finds out that
Maya's dad is Dickson.
They sit down to eat with Schmidt's parents
and Maya's mom,
which gets awkward after Dickson realizes
that Schmidt slept with his daughter.
He angrily throws food from the tables and
makes a scene.
Maya is angry at her dad for being too controlling,
so while she starts to hook up with Schmidt
again, he decides they can just talk.
They chat about Schmidt's high school experience
(the undercover one).
At the same time, Jenko is working out with
Zook, trying to get him to spill details on
Cynthia and WhyPhy.
Zook appears dodgy and insists that he knows
what he's doing.
After talking to Maya, Mercedes shows up again
and tells Schmidt that Cynthia got some sort
of medication from the psychology professor,
Dr. Murphy.
Schmidt and Jenko sneak into Murphy's office
to find something, but Murphy walks in and
thinks they are there for a counseling session,
mistaking the two for a gay couple.
The guys sit down for the session, spilling
their feelings toward each other, like Jenko
feeling that Schmidt is too clingy and Schmidt
feeling that Jenko is never listening to him.
Murphy mentions something about embedding,
in which details and such are glossed over
and ignored or misinterpreted, leading the
two to realize that perhaps Zook is not the
dealer in the photograph, but that he is instead
buying from Cynthia.
They also deduce that she and the other dealers
were hiding the WhyPhy in the library books
since nobody goes there and would not bother
to check them out.
The guys report to Dickson again, who is still
pissed at Schmidt for sleeping with Maya.
When Jenko deduces that fact, he goes wild
and runs around headquarters laughing and
telling everybody "SCHMIDT HAD SEX WITH THE
CAPTAIN'S DAUGHTER!"
Dickson gets back at Schmidt by tasing him
in the balls.
He adds that they have no more money in their
budget.
Schmidt goes to the library to investigate
while Jenko heads to the field for a football
game.
In the library, Schmidt sees Ghost and his
goons waiting for someone.
Schmidt texts Jenko to come by, persistently
sending messages after messages until Jenko
leaves the game to join him.
They make enough noise to attract one of Ghost's
goons to come over.
Jenko pretends to give Schmidt a blowjob to
draw attention away from themselves, but Jenko
gets angry when the goon calls them "faggots".
Jenko headbutts him, and Ghost recognizes
him and Schmidt as cops.
They take out their guns and begin shooting,
forcing the guys to run.
They run out to the campus where Jenko gets
a helmet-shaped car.
Ghost and his goons chase them in a hummer.
They go all across the campus, causing an
insane amount of property damage.
During the chase, Jenko tells Schmidt that
he got a scholarship to play football at MC
State and that Zook invited him to be his
roommate.
They drive onto the football field, and the
brakes are out.
They both jump out of the car where it crashes
and explodes onto the goal post.
Schmidt is taken into custody for questioning,
but not before letting Jenko stay behind so
he can take the fall for him.
He leaves campus, and Maya is mad at Schmidt
for lying to her.
Jenko keeps hanging out with Zook and the
other college kids while Schmidt goes back
to park duty.
Dr. Murphy is arrested after traces of WhyPhy
were found in his office.
Hardy declares the case closed.
However, Schmidt looks into the case file
to dig deeper.
He and Jenko meet up in the park.
Schmidt learns that Ghost has been paying
for a student's tuition, while Jenko informs
him that a large supply of WhyPhy is headed
for Puerto Mexico for spring break.
They decide to team up again and head down
there to finish the job themselves.
The guys make it to Puerto Mexico and come
to a big party on the beach.
WhyPhy is being sold everywhere, and they
find the person taking all the money - Mercedes.
They follow her to a warehouse where they
discover that she is Ghost's daughter, and
they are organizing a network to distribute
WhyPhy across the country.
Even the Yang Twins are in on it.
When Mercedes sees that they are both high
on the drug, she almost kills them until Schmidt
and Jenko try to arrest them.
They are outnumbered by all the goons, so
Dickson and the rest of the Jump Street division
come in after following Schmidt's tracking
device.
As everyone opens fire, Ghost grabs Mercedes'
bag with the money and runs.
Dickson runs after him, but sees Maya in the
warehouse partying with others.
He stops to tell her that the girl always
gets kidnapped during these climactic chases,
only to have the tables turned when Mercedes
shoots him in the foot and abducts him.
Schmidt and Jenko split up so that Schmidt
takes a Lamborghini (which upsets Jenko since
he spent the whole movie wanting to drive
a Lambo), while Jenko chases after Ghost.
He manages to fight off his goons on the beach,
using a stoned girl as a weapon.
Schmidt awkwardly drives the Lambo to a hotel
where he catches up with Mercedes.
They have an uncomfortable fist fight in a
room where Mercedes keeps trying to kiss Schmidt,
even though she continuously denies trying
to do that.
She knocks him off her and runs for it until
Schmidt catches up to her.
Dickson, having made it out of Mercedes' car,
aims his gun at Mercedes, but she holds Schmidt
at gunpoint.
She is taken down by Maya, who whacks her
over the head with a metal fish.
Dickson and Maya arrest Mercedes, leaving
Schmidt to join Jenko in catching Ghost.
The guys meet up and find Ghost trying to
escape in a helicopter.
A goon shoots at them, with Schmidt trying
to take a bullet for Jenko (as he did in the
last movie), only for him to jump too early,
so Jenko gets hit in his arm again.
Jenko kills the goon and makes it to the helicopter
as it takes off.
Jenko jumps off the roof and grabs onto the
helicopter, with Schmidt successfully making
the leap as well.
As they fly over the beach, Jenko slips and
Schmidt catches him.
He orders Jenko to reach into Schmidt's shorts
to grab a grenade.
They slip and fall from the helicopter, but
Jenko manages to throw it into the helicopter,
destroying it and the whole supply of WhyPhy.
As the two land in the ocean, they are applauded
by the whole crowd, including Rooster and
Zook.
Dickson congratulates the guys for fixing
their screw-up, and then tells them their
next assignment - medical school.
Thanks for watching!
Make sure to like the video if you enjoyed
it.
Subscribe to the channel if you want to see
more of these movie summaries.
It really helps the channel out.